FEAT: Add S3 bucket feeders guide (#47)
gatling/gatling.io-doc: content/guides/aws-s3-bucket-feeders/index.md

---
title: Use S3 Bucket Feeders for large scale data
seotitle: Easily Fetch Data from S3 Feeders with Gatling
menutitle: AWS S3 Feeders
description: Store your feeder files in S3 and access them from your Gatling scripts.
lead: Learn how to use AWS S3 buckets to store and fetch simulation feeder data.
---

## Introduction

When working with very large feeder files, storing them locally in your repository is not ideal. Instead, you can store them in an S3 bucket and access the feeder data directly from your Gatling script. This guide explains how to correctly retrieve data from feeders stored in an S3 bucket.

## Prerequisites

This guide requires load generators using:

> - [Private locations on Gatling Enterprise](https://docs.gatling.io/reference/install/cloud/private-locations/introduction/)

Reviewer: Specify: if only the s3 is private.

> - [Local test execution](https://docs.gatling.io/tutorials/scripting-intro/#run-the-simulation-locally-for-debugging)

Reviewer: Specify: if only the s3 is private.

> - Gatling SDK with Java 11, 17, 21, or 22.

Reviewer: Remove: - Gatling SDK with Java 11, 17, 21, or 22.

  ```json
  {
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
      {
        "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Action": "s3:GetObject",
        "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<feeders-bucket-name>/*"
      }
    ]
  }
  ```
- Attach a new policy to the control plane role that allows it to pass the previously created IAM instance profile, to the load generators.
  - Create the following policy:
    ```json
    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Action": ["iam:PassRole"],
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Resource": ["arn:aws:iam::{Account}:role/{RoleNameWithPath}"]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
  - Attach it to the control plane role.

## Installation

Install the AWS SDK into your Java project using either Maven or Gradle:

- [AWS SDK Maven Installation Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/setup-project-maven.html)
- [AWS SDK Gradle Installation Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/setup-project-gradle.html)

## Suggested implementation

**Notes:**

> - The example below utilises a custom **circular** iterator to retrieve data from feeders. You can customise the fetching behaviour to suit your specific needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The example below utilizes a custom **circular** iterator to retrieve data from feeders. You can customize the fetching behavior to suit your specific needs.
```
